So you've learned about incident response
teams, the different types of roles, and
their respective responsibilities.
Now, let's talk about how teams respond to
incidents using incident response plans.
When an incident occurs, incident response
teams must be prepared to respond quickly,
efficiently, and effectively.
Whether it's a data breach,
DDoS attack, or ransomware,
incidents have the potential to cause
significant damage to an organization.
Like we previously mentioned, regulations
may require organizations to report
incidents within a certain timeframe.
So it's crucial for organizations to have
a formal incident response plan in place,
so there's a prepared and
consistent process to quickly respond
to incidents once they occur.
You may remember learning that security
plans consist of three basic elements:
policies, standards, and procedures.
An incident response plan is a document
that outlines the procedures to take in
each step of incident response.
Response plans, just like response
teams, are not all the same.
Organizations tailor their plans
to meet their unique requirements
such as their mission, size,
culture, industry, and structure.
For example,
smaller organizations may choose to
include their incident response plan in
their security plan, while others may
choose to have them as separate documents.
Although not all incident
plans are the same,
there are common elements that they share.
Incident plans have:
Incident response procedures.
These are step-by-step instructions
on how to respond to incidents.
System information.
These are things like network diagrams,
data flow diagrams, logging, and
asset inventory information.
And other documents like contact lists,
forms, and templates.
Plans aren't perfect, and
there's always room to adjust and
improve as incidents occur.
Incident processes and procedures must
be regularly reviewed and tested.
This can be done through exercises
like tabletops or simulations.
These exercises ensure that
all team members are familiar
with the response plan.
They also allow organizations to identify
any missing gaps in a process to improve
their incident response plan.
Also, organizations may be required to
complete specific types of exercises for
regulatory reasons.
Coming up, we'll discuss the different
types of tools used in incident response.